libral
======

A library for various geospatial raster methods

HISTORY
=======

This library began a long time ago as the part written in C for a Perl
module Grid.pm. Grid.pm became Geo::Raster and it requires this
library.

PURPOSE
=======

This library has three purposes. The first is to be a fast and simple
raster algebra calculator. The second is to contain some geospatial
analysis algorithms, especially for hydrological terrain analysis. The
third is to provide methods for rendering vector data on a graphics
backend. There are also some code for computational geometry in the
library.

DEPENDENCIES
============

Raster input and output and vector output are mostly left for GDAL.

GDK and Cairo are used as the graphics backend.

LIMITATIONS
===========

The data type of the cells of the libral rasters (they are called
grids in the code) are either integer or real. ral/config.h defines
the implementation data types via RAL_INTEGER and RAL_REAL, which are
by default short (two byte int) and float (four byte real). Use of
other data types is not tested.

The libral rasters are in-memory rasters. Thus the size of the rasters
are limited by the amount of RAM in the computer.

NOTES ON THE CODE
=================

config.h

Generated by configure but included in distribution for
not-configure-based builds (in those cases, you may need to edit
it). Defines HAVE_LIBPNG.  This is _not_ installed anywhere, it is
used only in build.

msg.h

Things that are needed to build RAL but not a part of its API. Mainly
error messages.

ral/ral.h

The main header to include for using RAL.

ral/config.h

Configuration for the local build. Generated by configure but included
in distribution for not-configure-based builds (in those cases, you
may need to edit it). Defines RAL_INTEGER and RAL_REAL.

ral/hash.h

This is an almost general purpose hash library. It is used for example
in ral_grid.c. I'm not using glib's hash functions and that's a
conscious decision.

ral/vector.h

This is a simple vector library. The functions are mostly used in
rasterization and in visualization.

ral/grid.h

This defines the grid structure (a raster) and fundamental raster
algebra operations and some not so fundamental. 

ral/dem.h

Methods for raster DEMs and its derivatives.

ral/visual.h

Visualization attributes and tools.

ral/backend.h

Methods for rendering geospatial data onto various backends using
visualization attributes.

TO DO / FUTURE PLANS
====================

Separate the library according to purpose. I.e., the geospatial and
terrain analysis should be in its own library as well as the
rendering.

Use opaque pointers for structs.

Use Cairo for rendering onto the graphical backend.

Create better test code.

OTHER CODE FOR RASTER ALGEBRA / TERRAIN ANALYSIS
================================================

For raster algebra / terrain analysis there are also other libraries,
some of which are free. These include

PCRaster http://pcraster.geo.uu.nl/

RiverTools http://rivix.com/

TAPES-G Gallant and Wilson. TAPES-G: A grid-based terrain analysis
program for the environmental sciences. Computers & Geosciences 22(7) 713-722.

TARDEM http://www.crwr.utexas.edu/gis/gishydro99/uwrl/tardem.html

TOPOG http://www.per.clw.csiro.au/topog/

TOPAZ http://www.ars.usda.gov/Main/docs.htm?docid=21167

OpenEV http://openev.sourceforge.net

GRASS http://grass.osgeo.org/
